For the last couple of years friendships have played a very important role in my life. This was not the case when i was a kid or even until the age of 20. I mean, even back then friendships mattered but it was never something that gave meaning to my life. Since a few years, that has changed and in a life so bleak, something that has given me happiness is cultivating friendships. People have started to matter so much and a specific few, i've come to depend on, care about and in some ways revolve my life around. 

Another consequence of this deveopment has been that people - their leaving and coming, them being insensentive and uncaring or loving and present and the ebb and flow of relationships - have bothered me and laid siege to my peace of mind, more so than i'd like. The reaons are nothing new, well known to all of us. 

What is an interesting realisation is that keeping a close knit group of people and caring more for them is inherently at odds with the idea of being a friend to everyone. Being a friend to everyone is the humanistic idea of being kind and empathetic to anyone you interact with in your life. Being there for them and caring for them, as much as you have time and the mental space for. However the idea of having a best friend or one's one close tribe means that one feels so much more for them than those outside that group. The thing about having an old friendship is that they know how've you been in the past and they understand ones emotions, needs and behaviors. Also, they go out of their way when you need someone to be there. I guess the choice in the above two depends on ones emotional needs. Also, so many times its not so much a choice, but rather something psychologically driven where one feins choice. But i still think one can over time, persevere and change these patterns. Also, maybe one doesn't have to make a choice here. One can be equally caring towards people one might meet for the first time, as well as be in touch and keep ones close friends around. 
